So now that we've had a chance
to talk about these different
types of Completion-Stage
methods--
those that trigger after one
previous stage completes,
those that trigger after two,
both of two previous stages
complete, or one of two previous
stages complete, and so on--
let's take some time
to actually apply
these Completion-Stage methods
and see what they actually
do in practice.
So once again, we're going
to come back and revisit
our good friend, the
big fraction class.
And this time, we're
going to go ahead and show
these Completion-Stage methods
via a test function called
TestFractionMultiplications1,
which
implies there's a
TestFractionMultiplications2
method, which there is.
And this, of course, appears
in my GitHub repository
in the EX8 folder.
So what does this
particular test program do?
Well, it goes ahead
and calls a stream
generate factory
method to generate
a bunch of big fractions.
So it's going to generate
an unbounded number
of large random and
unreduced fractions,
but of course,
we're going to limit
it to be sMAX fractions, which
still could be a large number.
And let's just take a quick
recap on how this works.
This is the
makeBigFraction method
that creates a large and
random big fraction, which,
in our case, will be
un-reduced for this use case.
It takes in the random number
generator and a Boolean
to indicate whether
to reduce it or not.
We generate an absolutely
gigantic big integer
randomly for our numerator.
We divide that
gigantic big integer
by a number between
1 and 10 to make
a somewhat smaller denominator.
And then we use the valueOf
factory method on BigFraction
to combine the numerator
and denominator,
make a big fraction,
and in this case,
it's not reduced because
we passed in a false flag
over here.
So with that in
mind, we've now got
this stream of
big fractions that
are large and random
and un-reduced.
And now we're going to go
ahead and call the map method,
and we're going to
pass in a function that
will reduce and multiply
all of these big fractions
asynchronously.
So let's go ahead
and take a look
at what the
reduceAndMultiplyFraction
function object looks like.
So this is a lambda function
that asynchronously reduces
and multiplies big fractions.
And what it does is it goes
ahead and asynchronously
reduces a big fraction using
supplyAsync to kick it off
in the background.
And then as that completes, the
thenCompose Completion-Stage
method is called, which
takes the reduced fraction
and then kicks off another
asynchronous operation
to reduce that big fraction-- to
take that reduced big fraction
and multiply it by some
other big fraction.
So this is actually going to
take a fair amount of time
to run.
thenCompose acts like
flatMap to ensure
there's only one level of
CompletableFuture nesting here.
And that's because
CompletableFuture supplyAsync
will end up creating
a CompletableFuture,
and then Compose will also want
to return a CompletableFuture.
But it's smart enough
to de-nest these things
and flatten them out.
Now we could also have
simply used thenApplyAsync,
rather than having
to do thenCompose and
CompletableFuture supplyAsync.
We could just call
thenApplyAsync and given it
the action that it wants
to run in a background
thread in the thread pool.
So that's an
alternative means that
avoids having to call a
supplyAsync a second time.
And there are sort
of pros and cons.
I kind of like this
approach a little better.
It's a little
cleaner for my money.
The output of the map
operation is a stream
of CompletableFutures to
asynchronous operations
that are reducing
and multiplying
a whole pile of big fractions.
So you've got a large number
of these things flowing through
at this point, assuming that
that sMAX fractions was big.
So what are we going
to do with this?
How are we going to manage
all of these asynchronous
computations?
Well, if you've
noticed so far, we've
been using our good friend,
sequential stream to kind
of wrap all of this stuff up.
So what we're going
to do is we're
going to go ahead
and use the Collect
operation on the stream.
And that's going to go ahead
and return a single completable
future to a list
of big fractions
that are being reduced and
multiplied asynchronously.
And the magic behind
this is a class
we'll talk about in
just a minute, when
we talk about arbitrary-arity
methods in CompletableFuture
called allOf.
And we're going
to talk about how
to wrap up allOf
arbitrary-arity method
inside of a really
helpful wrapper
class called FuturesCollector.
And FuturesCollector.toFuture
is a factory method
that returns a
collector that collects
a stream of completable
futures to objects of type T
into a single completable future
to a list of objects of type T.
And we'll talk more about
how that works in a second.
This is a good example
of reactive programming.
We're going to get back a
single completable future that
will be triggered when all
these other asynchronous calls
complete.
When all those asynchronous
calls complete,
when they're finally done, the
thenAccept completion stage
method will get called back.
And what that does is
it will sort and print
the list that we got back as a
result of doing the collection
and the collector.
Here's what sort
and print list does.
This is kind of
what we saw before.
It's going to take a
list of big fractions
that have been reduced
and multiplied.
And because we're
just kind of lazy
and we don't want to figure
out which version of sort
works best, we're going
to asynchronously run
quickSort on the list,
and asynchronously
run mergeSort on the list.
And then whichever
one finishes first,
we're going to take
that result and we're
going to go ahead and print
out the sorted list, converting
everything into a mixed string.
So that's pretty cool.
Now if the future
is already completed
by the time we get
to accept either--
if that sorting takes place
so quickly, that by the time
accept gets called,
it will end up
running this action in
the thread of the caller.
So it'll be the UI thread, or
the main thread, or whatever.
If, for some other reason,
it is not completed,
then it'll probably
run in the thread
where the previous stage ran.
So remember, those stages are
running in the background.
And so if they take
a while to run,
it'll run in the
background thread.
In either case,
cancel is not called
on the second completable future
after the first one completes.
And again, that's by design.